M4 Report: Working doc (#189)
sopra-fs22-group-36/screw-your-neighbor-server: README.md

- Bean validation (uniqueness, not null, format etc.)
- Ensure referential integrity
- Locking data for updates (ensure consistency)
- Side effects: triggering some additional (game) logic before or after creating, updating or deleting an entity

### Game Logic (side effects)
The game logic was mainly part of the EventHandlers. They implemented so-called side effects which were triggered
by certain database interactions. Spring ApplicationListener listens to creating, saving and deleting
events and executes then the logic with the corresponding annotation (e.g. a method with the `@HandleAfterSave`
annotation is executed after the update of an entity).

### Validations
Validations are implemented in several places. Format validations are implemented on entities level
by bean validations. Some Validator classes dedicated to specific entities do further game validations.
The CardValidator class for example ensures that a player can not play two cards in the same round.

Validation errors as well as technical exceptions from Java or Hibernate are catched and transformed 
in appropriate HTTP status codes with informal exception messages to prevent technical errors in the

> frontend.

Reviewer: Should we create a table with validation errors and respective http status codes?

| playsIn   | Participates in a specific a game. | Interaction on any object of a game is only allowed for players being part of the same game themselves. |
| isOwnCard | Card entity in the hand of a player.     | Whether a card can be read or updated depends on the ownership of the card.                             |

The two authorizations, especially IsOwnCard, end up in a precisely determined ruleset on task can be executed or not at which point in time. The most
important rules are implemented by the following methods.

### Serialization/Deserialization
Data transmission is done with Jackson JSON serializer and deserializer. Only for transmission of card objects
the serializer is overwritten by a special serializer (CardSerializer). The reason for that is that displaying
cards to a user depends on the round. Normally players can see their own cards and cards of the other players
are hidden. In the round 5 where only one card is distributed per player, it's in reverse. Therefore serialize
method had to be overwritten such that players can't see their own cards but all the other player's cards instead.

## Launch & Deployment

> @Lucius? :)

Reviewer: @BacLuc ?

- Spring Boot (Spring Boot support in Gradle)
- Spring Dependency Management (asserts that the correct combination of spring dependencies are used)
- Spotless for code validation (clean code, adhering to coding standard)
- IDEA (Intellij IDEA customized import)
- JaCoCo (Code coverage)
- SonarQube (static code analysis and technical code quality evaluation)

### Spring Framework
![spring](./doc/img/spring.png) 

#### Spring Boot
Spring boot allows for automatic dependency injection implemented with classpath scanning instead of
using xml configuration for the dependency injection.

#### Spring Data Rest
The rapid api development architecture provided by spring-data-rest was used to develop the api.
It provides an easy way to build REST web services on top of the data repositories. The
PagingAndSortingRepositories and the corresponding entities provide everything for CRUD operations on the database
(Deserialization, Database Operation, Serialization, Basic Error Handling).
Validation was implemented with Bean validations and if necessary with Spring event handlers.
Side effects were also done with Spring event handlers.

> ### Hibernate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Hibernate & H2
```

Start the application and visit /swagger-ui.html to see a swagger ui with the api documentation.

## Introduction
World famous card game played with 36 Swiss "Jasskarten". 

## Technologies
Briefly overview about used main technologies: 

![spring](./doc/img/spring.png)
![java](./doc/img/gradle.png)

> ![rapid api](./doc/img/rapis_api.png)

Reviewer 2: rapid api

![mockito](./doc/img/mockito.png)
![hibarnate](./doc/img/hibernate.png)
![plant](./doc/img/plant_uml.png)

### Spring Framework
The Rapid Api Development Architecture provided by spring-data-rest was used to develop the api.
The PagingAndSortingRepositories provide request handling, deserialization, crud on the database,
serialization and rendering of errors. Validation was implemented with Bean validations and if
necessary with Spring event handlers. Side effects were also done with Spring event handlers.

### Hibernate, JPA

> ### Jitsi API

Reviewer 2: i would put that directly in the frontend readme

(move to FE README)

### Mockito

### Git

## High-level components

> ### UI

Reviewer 2: We have no ui in the backend

Author: I've done it already. Hope this is okey for you @salwil ?

### Database

### Game Logic (side effects)

### Game Validations

### Security

> 

Reviewer 2: What about Serialization/Deserialization?

![spring](./doc/img/spring.png) 

#### Spring Boot
Spring boot allows for automatic dependency injection implemented with classpath scanning instead of
using xml configuration for the dependency injection.

#### Spring Data Rest
The rapid api development architecture provided by spring-data-rest was used to develop the api.
It provides an easy way to build REST web services on top of the data repositories. The
PagingAndSortingRepositories and the corresponding entities provide everything for CRUD operations on the database
(Deserialization, Database Operation, Serialization, Basic Error Handling).
Validation was implemented with Bean validations and if necessary with Spring event handlers.
Side effects were also done with Spring event handlers.

### Hibernate
![hibernate](./doc/img/hibernate.png)

> The data was stored in a h2 database. The data is accessed through the Object Relational Mapper hibernate.

Reviewer 2: h2 != hibernate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The data is stored in a H2 database. The data is accessed through the Object Relational Mapper of the Hibernate framework.
```

### Hibernate
![hibernate](./doc/img/hibernate.png)

The data was stored in a hibernate database which offers an object relational mapping of the data.
This means object oriented entities can be stored in a relational database.

### JPA
Jakarta Persistence API is the API for storing, retrieving, updating and deleting relational database
entries in an object oriented context.

### Rapid API
![rapid api](./doc/img/rapid_api.png)

??? --> Frontend?
The data was stored in a h2 database. The data is accessed through the Object Relational Mapper hibernate.

### PlantUML
![plant](./doc/img/plant_uml.png)

UML diagrams were created with PlantUML plain text language.

### Git, Github
The versioning of the source code and other files was maintained by Git ont the GitHub platform.
The GitHubs Actions feature was used for automated build, test and deployment of the software.
UML diagrams were created with PlantUML.

## High-level components
### Database

> All entities used for the game are persisted during a running game. The main reason is that Spring Data REST

Reviewer 2: The main reason for using a database is that it provides persistence.
The other stuff is done with the magic of spring data rest. But this has nothing to do with the database.

All interactions on entities which are exposed for http requests are protected the WebSecurity configuration
which only allows to call the /players endpoint without any valid authentication.

| File                                                                                                                                                                                                  | Responsability                                                                                                    |
|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | [PlayerEventHandler](https://github.com/sopra-fs22-group-36/screw-your-neighbor-server/blob/main/src/main/java/ch/uzh/ifi/hase/soprafs22/screwyourneighborserver/sideeffects/PlayerEventHandler.java) | Creates security context with authentication token when a new player is created.                                  |

Reviewer 2: You can (and should) use relative URL's in the project README.
Then it links to the file in the branch you opened on github.
And the link also works in your IDE.
And the link is shorter

Boot Gradle Plugin manages the projects dependencies, packages and runs the application. New dependencies have to be added to the 
build.gardle file.
# run tests
./gradlew test
```

To **enhance the documentation**, adding an .md file to the doc folder or any subfolder or adding contents to an existing .md file is the
way to go. UML diagrams can be pushed as .puml files. The CI pipeline in Github will convert them to .svg files and include them into the
.md files where they are referenced.

To **deploy and release source code to production** the code has to be merged from a feature branch to the main branch. Pushing directly
to the main branch is not possible because any code being published on the main branch is automatically deployed by a CD pipeline to Heroku.
to the main branch is disabled by the repository configuration.
Standard process is to create a pull request which can be merged when at least one other developer gave their approval. Merging is not blocked
without, but individual deployment without code review and approval is not appreciated by the team.

## Roadmap
### Top features to contribute

> - Sound effects when playing card, winning / loosing trick, winning the game etc.

Reviewer 2: you wouldn't hear it if the server played a sound in the datacenter
